Add blog post about publishing Kubernetes SIG images to registry.k8s.io (#815)
kubernetes/contributor-site: content/en/blog/2026/publishing-images-to-registry-k8s-io/index.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Publishing a Kubernetes SIG's Images to registry.k8s.io"
draft: true
slug: publishing-images-to-registry-k8s-io
author: >
  [Kahiro Okina](https://github.com/kahirokunn) (Craftsman Software, Inc.)
---

For many Kubernetes SIG projects, shipping container images eventually
becomes necessary, and `registry.k8s.io` is the official channel for them. I recently published a
SIG project's first images there. No single step is hard, but the steps live
in four repositories and have to happen in a particular order, which I mostly
learned by tripping over them.

This post is the guide I wish I had at the start. The example project is
`cluster-inventory-api` from
[SIG Multicluster](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-multicluster),

> but nothing in the procedure is specific to that SIG.

Reviewer: Consider rewriting this intro in this way :
1. ` eventually becomes necessary,` okay but comes across as every SIG project must publish images so try to make the intro more like situation the reader might be in.
2. Link the official docs for registry.k8s.io
3. a brief description of what registry.k8s.io gives context to reader : `the Kubernetes project's official container image registry,`

**_(Note : Try whenever you are writing blog to put yourself in place of readers : A new contributor will probably assume they can publish images to any container registry. The introduction should establish that expectation first, then explain that Kubernetes uses a different publishing workflow. That immediately gives readers a reason to keep reading)_**

_I restructured it a bit (feel free to add changes) to have a flow , kept your words as is_
```suggestion
If you're publishing container images for a Kubernetes SIG project, you might expect the same publishing workflow used by other container registries to work. That was my assumption too. My workflow successfully published the images, but they weren't publicly available. Instead, official Kubernetes project images are distributed through [registry.k8s.io](https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io/tree/main/registry.k8s.io), the Kubernetes project's official container image registry.

No single step was hard, but the steps were spread across multiple repositories and had to happen in a particular order, something I mostly learned by tripping over them. This post is the guide I wish I had at the start. It walks through that workflow from end to end using Cluster Inventory API from [SIG Multicluster](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-multicluster) as an example, but the same process applies to any Kubernetes SIG project.

```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

## What Cluster Inventory API publishes

Cluster Inventory API helps applications and tools work with multiple
Kubernetes clusters. It publishes the
[`secretreader`](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-inventory-api/tree/main/plugins/secretreader/cmd/plugin)
and
[`kubeconfig-secretreader`](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-inventory-api/tree/main/plugins/kubeconfig-secretreader/cmd/plugin)
access-provider plugins as OCI images. Consumers mount these images as

> [image volumes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/image-volumes/).

Reviewer: IMO consider removing this section as  introduction already covers it, while it's useful to introduce the example project, giving it a separate section early in the post shifts the focus away from the main topic. 
**_The purpose of the blog is:_**
`How to publish container images to registry.k8s.io.`
**_The purpose is **not**:_**
`What Cluster Inventory API is.`
```suggestion

```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

> ## My first plan: ghcr.io

Reviewer: GHCR is the product/service name (GitHub Container Registry). ghcr.io is the hostname/registry endpoint.
```suggestion
## My first attempt: GHCR
```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

I first tried a common GitHub release pattern: using GitHub Actions to publish
images to `ghcr.io` on a tag push
([cluster-inventory-api#40](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-inventory-api/pull/40)).
The workflow succeeded, but Kubernetes GitHub organizations keep GHCR packages
private, so GHCR cannot be used for public distribution.

{{< figure src="ghcr-path-blocked.svg" class="text-center" width="660" alt="The blocked GHCR path: a tag push triggers GitHub Actions, which pushes the image to ghcr.io, where it cannot be made public." >}}

As described in the

> [artifacts documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io/tree/main/artifacts#staging-buckets),

Reviewer: mention this link instead of that : https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io/tree/main/registry.k8s.io
Those are all part of the container image pipeline documented under registry.k8s.io.

```suggestion
[registry.k8s.io documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io/tree/main/registry.k8s.io)```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

official images take a different route:
[Prow](https://docs.prow.k8s.io/) (the Kubernetes project's CI/CD system)
picks up a tag push and runs Google Cloud Build on Kubernetes-owned
infrastructure to push the image to a staging registry, and the image promoter
then copies it to `registry.k8s.io`.

{{< figure src="official-publishing-path.svg" class="text-center" width="820" alt="The official publishing path: a tag push triggers a Prow postsubmit job, which runs Cloud Build and pushes to a staging registry. The image promoter then copies the image to registry.k8s.io." >}}

For this project, the images that finally shipped through that route were:

```none
registry.k8s.io/cluster-inventory-api/secretreader:v0.1.3
registry.k8s.io/cluster-inventory-api/kubeconfig-secretreader:v0.1.3
```

> 

Reviewer: Consider moving this to the end, after taking the reader through the entire publishing process, gives a nice sense of accomplishment and happy ending to the story :) 
**added to step 7**
```suggestion

```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

## The first-time setup, step by step

Besides the image-owning repository, this touches three infrastructure
repositories: [`kubernetes/k8s.io`](https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io),
[`kubernetes/test-infra`](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra), and
[`kubernetes/org`](https://github.com/kubernetes/org). The pieces depend on
each other like this:

{{< figure src="dependency-overview.svg" alt="A dependency graph for first-time registry.k8s.io image publishing. The image-owning repository provides cloudbuild.yaml and make release-staging, and a signed release tag triggers the kubernetes/test-infra image-pushing postsubmit job. In kubernetes/k8s.io, a staging Google Group must exist before the staging registry can be created, and that registry is the job's push target. The postsubmit job pushes the staging image. That staging image, together with image promoter config in kubernetes/k8s.io and OWNERS validation through kubernetes/org membership, promotes the image to registry.k8s.io." >}}

> ### Before you start: choose registry paths, tag policy, and owners

Reviewer: Keep headings light
```suggestion
### Before you start: decide your project details
```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

Reading `registry.k8s.io/cluster-inventory-api/secretreader:v0.1.3` from the
example above: `<project>` is `cluster-inventory-api`, `<image>` is

> `secretreader`, and `v<version>` is `v0.1.3`. For your project, decide:

Reviewer: Explain why you need to decide rn it's asking readers to decide several things without explaining why they matter or when they'll be used
**_Be empathetic to readers and one way is to simplyfy the process and not clutter with too many details that may not be necessary at the moment_**
```suggestion
Before setting up the publishing workflow, decide a few project-specific details. These values will be reused throughout the setup when creating the staging registry, configuring image builds, and setting up image promotion.
```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

- `<project>`, which also fixes the staging path

>   `us-central1-docker.pkg.dev/k8s-staging-images/<project>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `<project>`, which determines the staging registry path
  `us-central1-docker.pkg.dev/k8s-staging-images/<project>`.
```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

- `<image>` for each image you ship.

> - The tag policy behind `<version>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Decide how your project will version releases.
```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

- Which SIG owns the project, and who reviews and approves.
- Who goes in the promotion `OWNERS` file.

> - The staging access group name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  The staging Google Group (`k8s-infra-staging-<project>`) that will manage access to the staging registry.
```

> - The staging access group name.

Reviewer: The blog now introduces so many unfamiliar concepts ("Google Group", "OWNERS", "staging access group") before readers know why they exist.
**_Another tip: Don't assume readers will understand a new concept because it's explained later. Introduce it only when there's enough context for them to understand what it is and why it's needed._**

```suggestion

```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

> 

Reviewer: Now here it makes more sense to introduce the example after giving enough context

```suggestion
(_For the Cluster Inventory API project , these values are `registry.k8s.io/cluster-inventory-api/secretreader:v0.1.3`, where: `<project>` is cluster-inventory-api,` <image>` is secretreader and `<version>` is v0.1.3_)
```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

> ### 1. Make the image-owning repository build images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Set up your project repository to build images
```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

> Set up the repository so that a tag push can build and push a staging image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before Kubernetes infrastructure can build and publish your images, the image-owning repository must define how they are built. As described in the [image-pushing documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/blob/master/config/jobs/image-pushing/README.md), this requires:
```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

You need:

- a `RELEASE.md` documenting the release steps,
- a `cloudbuild.yaml` (the `test-infra` job in step 4 invokes this to build

>   and push the image),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- a `cloudbuild.yaml` file that defines how your project builds and pushes container images,

```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

> - a Dockerfile and/or Make target to build the image,

Reviewer: _**Try not to use vendor specific product ex : here as docker , some people might want to use Podman etc**_
```suggestion
- the project-specific build configuration used by `cloudbuild.yaml` (for example, a `Makefile` or Container image build configuration).  Check this [Builld Example](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/blob/master/config/jobs/image-pushing/README.md#build-example)
```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

- a release target that pushes to the staging registry (for example

>   `make release-staging`).

Reviewer: So release-staging is just the target's name. it's simply the label for a sequence of commands. , so consider removing it
```suggestion

```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

References:
[cluster-inventory-api#53](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-inventory-api/pull/53)
(moving to the Prow/Cloud Build approach) and
[cluster-inventory-api#57](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-inventory-api/pull/57)
(passing the staging repository explicitly to `kpromo`).

### 2. Add a Google Group for staging artifacts

> 

Reviewer: Explain first why this group is needed in first place?
```suggestion
Kubernetes uses a Google Group to control who can push images into the staging registry. Before the registry can be created, this group must exist.
```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

Create the Google Group that will get push access to the staging registry, in
your SIG's group configuration under `groups/` in `kubernetes/k8s.io`
([kubernetes/k8s.io#9385](https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io/pull/9385)),
and get approval from your SIG leads or chairs. Keep the group-name suffix
within the 18-character limit

> ([kubernetes/k8s.io#9402](https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io/pull/9402)).

Reviewer: - mention proper name `k8s-infra-staging-<project-name>@kubernetes.io`
- You might want to mention 18 character in bold(its easy to forget)
- Mentioning directly PR does not make sense to reader tell the first pr as example and second pr was a fix up to that since it did not satisfy the 18 character requirement
```suggestion
Create a Google Group named `k8s-infra-staging-<project-name>@kubernetes.io` in your SIG's groups/ configuration under kubernetes/k8s.io. After the PR merges, Kubernetes infrastructure creates the group automatically (for example,[kubernetes/k8s.io#9385](https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io/pull/9385)).

Keep the <project-name> suffix within the 18-character limit. See [kubernetes/k8s.io#9402](https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io/pull/9402) for an example where the group name was shortened to satisfy this 18 character requirement.  
_So keep in mind_ :)
```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

### 3. Add a staging registry in kubernetes/k8s.io

Add one entry to the `registries` map in
`infra/gcp/terraform/k8s-staging-images/registries.tf`, mapping `<project>` to
the group from step 2. The module gives that group writer access and makes the
repository publicly readable. Reference:
[kubernetes/k8s.io#9347](https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io/pull/9347).

### 4. Add an image-pushing postsubmit job in kubernetes/test-infra

Add a job under `config/jobs/image-pushing/` that runs the image-owning
repository's `cloudbuild.yaml` on a tag push and pushes to the staging

> registry. Reference:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
registry. Check this [Prow config template](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/blob/master/config/jobs/image-pushing/README.md#prow-config-template)
```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

> [kubernetes/test-infra#36821](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/pull/36821).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For reference: [kubernetes/test-infra#36821](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/pull/36821).
```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

### 5. Push a release tag to build a staging image

With everything above in place, push a
[signed tag](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/managing-commit-signature-verification/signing-tags)
from the image-owning repository:

```bash
git tag -s v<version>
git push origin v<version>
gh release create v<version> --draft --generate-notes --verify-tag
```

> Then verify the staging image:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify that the image was successfully published to the staging registry.
```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

```bash
docker manifest inspect us-central1-docker.pkg.dev/k8s-staging-images/<project>/<image>:v<version>

> ```

Reviewer: It makes this vendor specific so try not to include it
```suggestion

```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

Tag events are not processed retroactively: tags created before the release
pipeline existed will not produce a staging image.

> 

Reviewer: **_You might want to add this 90 day retention policy_**
```suggestion
Note: Staging registries have a 90-day retention policy and are intended only for intermediate builds. End users should consume images from registry.k8s.io after they have been promoted.
```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

### 6. Add the image promoter configuration in kubernetes/k8s.io

> 

Reviewer: Again explain the reader context on why a certain step is needed rather than just giving them instruction, why promotion exists?
```suggestion
At this point, the image exists only in the staging registry. The next step configures the Image Promoter, which copies approved images into the public registry.k8s.io registry.
```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

> Open a `kubernetes/k8s.io` PR that adds the promotion configuration for this
> project
> ([kubernetes/k8s.io#9499](https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io/pull/9499)):

Reviewer: Maybe you wnat to add this tooling which makes the process easier : https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/promo-tools/blob/main/docs/promotion-pull-requests.md

```suggestion
The image promoter tooling simplifies the creation of image promotion pull requests. Check this promotion pull requests documentation](https://sigs.k8s.io/promo-tools/docs/promotion-pull-requests.md). Open a `kubernetes/k8s.io` PR that adds the promotion configuration for this project ([kubernetes/k8s.io#9499](https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io/pull/9499)):
```

Author: Thanks! I've added this to the routine release section, since kpromo is used after the initial setup.

- `registry.k8s.io/images/k8s-staging-<project>/OWNERS`,
- `registry.k8s.io/images/k8s-staging-<project>/images.yaml` (the promotion
  target),
- `registry.k8s.io/manifests/k8s-staging-<project>/promoter-manifest.yaml`.

> 

Reviewer: Explain the diff bw these files ?
```suggestion
The `promoter-manifest.yaml` file will house the credentials and other registry metadata, whereas the `images.yaml` file will hold only the image data. The `OWNERS` file is to increase the number of people who can approve new images for promotion for your project.
```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

For the first promotion, include the digest and tag entries for the staging
images in `images.yaml`, and get `/lgtm` from a SIG lead. For later releases,
[`kpromo`](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/promo-tools) generates this PR
for you (see the routine release steps below). If you are curious how the
promotion machinery works, see
[The Invisible Rewrite: Modernizing the Kubernetes Image Promoter](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2026/03/17/image-promoter-rewrite/).

If anyone you plan to list in `OWNERS` is not yet a Kubernetes organization
member, submit a membership request first
([kubernetes/org#6385](https://github.com/kubernetes/org/pull/6385),
[kubernetes/org#6386](https://github.com/kubernetes/org/pull/6386)).

### 7. Verify the release and publish it

Once the promotion PR merges, run the project's release verification and
confirm the production image is available:

```bash
docker manifest inspect registry.k8s.io/<project>/<image>:v<version>
```

When that works, publish or update the GitHub release and announce it in the

> related issues and Slack channels.

Reviewer: Don't keep it vendor specific commands: 
For the jobs check this : https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io/tree/main/registry.k8s.io#image-promoter
```suggestion
Once the promotion PR merges, the image promoter workflow runs to publish the image from the staging registry to `registry.k8s.io`.
The promotion is handled by Kubernetes CI jobs:
- `post-k8sio-image-promo` runs after the merge and performs the promotion.
- `ci-k8sio-image-promo` periodically retries promotions in case of transient failures.

Verify that the promotion jobs complete successfully and that the image is available from `registry.k8s.io`:

```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

> 

Reviewer: Now here it makes more sense to write final shipped images as happy ending to the story
```suggestion
For this project, the images that finally shipped through that route were:

```none
registry.k8s.io/cluster-inventory-api/secretreader:v0.1.3
registry.k8s.io/cluster-inventory-api/kubeconfig-secretreader:v0.1.3
```
```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

### Where to ask for help

Several of these steps depend on other people: reviewers, approvers, and SIG
leads. Expect to wait on reviews between steps rather than finishing in one
sitting. On the [Kubernetes Slack](https://slack.k8s.io/), these channels line
up with the work:

| Channel | Use it for |
| --- | --- |
| `#github-management` | Repository access, GHCR questions, and Kubernetes organization membership |

> | `#sig-k8s-infra` | The staging Google Group and staging registry |

Reviewer: Mention the direct link of these 2 slack channels , (More accessible)
```suggestion
| [`#github-management`](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C01672LSZL0) | Repository access, Kubernetes organization membership, and GitHub-related questions |
| [`#sig-k8s-infra`](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CCK68P2Q2) | The staging Google Group, staging registry, and image publishing infrastructure |
```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.

repository publicly readable. Reference:
[kubernetes/k8s.io#9347](https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io/pull/9347).

### 4. Add an image-pushing postsubmit job in kubernetes/test-infra

Add a job under `config/jobs/image-pushing/` that runs the image-owning
repository's `cloudbuild.yaml` on a tag push and pushes to the staging
registry. See the
[Prow config template](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/blob/master/config/jobs/image-pushing/README.md#prow-config-template).
For reference:
[kubernetes/test-infra#36821](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/pull/36821).

### 5. Push a release tag to build a staging image

With everything above in place, push a
[signed tag](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/managing-commit-signature-verification/signing-tags)
from the image-owning repository:

```bash
git tag -s v<version>
git push origin v<version>
gh release create v<version> --draft --generate-notes --verify-tag
```

Verify that the image was successfully published to the staging registry.

Tag events are not processed retroactively: tags created before the release
pipeline existed will not produce a staging image.

> Note: Staging registries have a 90-day retention policy and are intended only
> for intermediate builds. End users should consume images from
> `registry.k8s.io` after they have been promoted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< alert color="info" title="Note" >}}
Staging registries have a 90-day retention policy and are intended only
for intermediate builds. End users should consume images from
`registry.k8s.io` after they have been promoted.
{{< /alert >}}
```

SIG Multicluster; [Jian Qiu](https://github.com/qiujian16) for reviewing the
implementation;
[Stephen Kitt](https://github.com/skitt) for reviewing the release process and
clarifying the publishing rules; and
[Arnaud M.](https://github.com/ameukam) for reviewing the `kubernetes/k8s.io`
pull requests and guiding the infrastructure and promotion changes.

## References

- [cluster-inventory-api releases](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-inventory-api/releases)
- [Using Plugin OCI Images](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-inventory-api/blob/main/docs/plugin-images.md)
- [Image volumes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/image-volumes/)
- [registry.k8s.io: faster, cheaper and Generally Available (GA)](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2022/11/28/registry-k8s-io-faster-cheaper-ga/)
- [Managing Kubernetes container registries](https://github.com/kubernetes/k8s.io/tree/main/registry.k8s.io)
- [Image pushing jobs](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/blob/master/config/jobs/image-pushing/README.md)
- [Creating promotion pull requests with `kpromo`](https://sigs.k8s.io/promo-tools/docs/promotion-pull-requests.md)

> - [Kubernetes Slack](https://slack.k8s.io/)

Reviewer: All important/all sources are already linked inline: so IMO no need for repeating same things
```suggestion

```

Author: Thanks! I've applied this.
